TELCODOCS-806-1 PR for setting interface sysctl with SR-IOV (#49871)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-configure-sysctl-interface-sriov-network.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//networking/hardware_networks/configuring-sriov-device.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configure-sysctl-on-sriov-network_{context}"]

> = Configure sysctl on a SR-IOV network 

Reviewer: ISG: Use gerunds. Maybe:
```suggestion
= Configuring sysctl on a SR-IOV network 
```

> As a cluster administrator, set the interface specific sysctls on virtual interfaces created by SR-IOV by adding the tuning configuration to the optional `metaPlugins` parameter of the `SriovNetwork` resource.

Reviewer: IMO: constructions like "As a cluster administrator..." are mostly superfluous.

```suggestion
You can set interface specific `sysctl` settings on virtual interfaces created by SR-IOV by adding the tuning configuration to the optional `metaPlugins` parameter of the `SriovNetwork` resource.
```

Author: done

The SR-IOV Network Operator manages additional network definitions. When you specify an additional SR-IOV network to create, the SR-IOV Network Operator creates the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` custom resource (CR) automatically.

[NOTE]
====
Do not edit `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` custom resources that the SR-IOV Network Operator manages. Doing so might disrupt network traffic on your additional network.
====

> To change the interface-level network `net.ipv4.conf.IFNAME.accept_redirects` sysctl create an additional SR-IOV network with the Container Network Interface (CNI) tuning plug-in by using the following procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the interface-level network `net.ipv4.conf.IFNAME.accept_redirects` `sysctl` settings, create an additional SR-IOV network with the Container Network Interface (CNI) tuning plug-in.
```

Author: done

> To change the interface-level network `net.ipv4.conf.IFNAME.accept_redirects` sysctl create an additional SR-IOV network attachment with the Container Network Interface (CNI) tuning plug-in by using the following procedure.

Reviewer 2: `SR-IOV network attachment` -> just `SR-IOV network`

.Prerequisites

* Install the {product-title} CLI (oc).
* Log in to the {product-title} cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

.Procedure

. Create the `SriovNetwork` custom resource (CR) for the additional SR-IOV network attachment and insert the `metaPlugins` configuration, as in the following example CR. Save the YAML as the file `sriov-network-interface-sysctl.yaml`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sriovnetwork.openshift.io/v1
kind: SriovNetwork
metadata:
  name: onevalidflag <1>
  namespace: openshift-sriov-network-operator <2>
spec:

>   resourceName: policy-example-oneflag <3>

Reviewer 3: Mismatch between SriovNetworkNodePolicy.Spec.resourceName==policyoneflag and this SriovNetwork.Spec.resourceName=policy-example-oneflag

>   networkNamespace: sysctl-tuning-test <4>

Reviewer 3: Some of the example resources are located in default namespace, some of them in demo namespace and this particular on in sysctl-tuning-test. I think we should use the same namespace for our examples

  ipam: '{ "type": "static" }' <5>
  capabilities: '{ "mac": true, "ips": true }' <6>
  metaPlugins : | <7>
    {
      "type": "tuning",

>       "capabilities":{

Reviewer 2: ```
      "capabilities":{
        "mac":true
      },
```

not relevant in this example, can delete this.

Author: Was not 100% sure on these as I simply took the YAML that @kononovn supplied and plugged it. Maybe I should remove

Reviewer 2: Please remove

        "mac":true
      },
      "sysctl":{ 
         "net.ipv4.conf.IFNAME.accept_redirects": "1"
      }
    }
----

> <1> A name for the object. The SR-IOV Network Operator creates a NetworkAttachmentDefinition object with same name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> A name for the object. The SR-IOV Network Operator creates a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object with same name.
```

<2> The namespace where the SR-IOV Network Operator is installed.

> <3> The value for the spec.resourceName parameter from the SriovNetworkNodePolicy object that defines the SR-IOV hardware for this additional network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The value for the `spec.resourceName` parameter from the `SriovNetworkNodePolicy` object that defines the SR-IOV hardware for this additional network.
```

Author: done

> <4> The target namespace for the SriovNetwork object. Only pods in the target namespace can attach to the additional network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> The target namespace for the `SriovNetwork` object. Only pods in the target namespace can attach to the additional network.
```

Author: done

<5> A configuration object for the IPAM CNI plug-in as a YAML block scalar. The plug-in manages IP address assignment for the attachment definition.

> <6> Optional: The capabilities to configure for this additional network. You can specify `"{ "ips": true }"` to enable IP address support or `"{ "mac": true }"` to enable MAC address support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> Optional: Set capabilities for the additional network. You can specify `"{ "ips": true }"` to enable IP address support or `"{ "mac": true }"` to enable MAC address support.
```

Author: done

<7> Optional: The metaPlugins parameter is used to add additional capabilities to the device. In this use case set the `type` field to `tuning`. Specify the interface-level network `sysctl` you want to set in the `sysctl` field. 

. Create the `SriovNetwork` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f sriov-network-interface-sysctl.yaml
----

.Verifying that the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CR is successfully created

> * Confirm that the SR-IOV Network Operator created the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CR by running the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Confirm that the SR-IOV Network Operator created the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CR by running the following command:
```

Author: done

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get network-attachment-definitions -n <namespace> <1>
----

> <1> Replace <namespace> with the networkNamespace you specified in the SriovNetwork object. For example `sysctl-tuning-test`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<namespace>` with the value for `networkNamespace` that you specified in the `SriovNetwork` object. For example, `sysctl-tuning-test`. 
```

Author: done

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                                  AGE

> openshift-sriov-network-operator      14m

Reviewer 3: It's not recommended to use operator's names for NetworkAttachmentDefinition resources. Let's use any other name

Author: HI @kononovn should this not be the same namespace that you installed the SR-IOV Network Operator in. If that is the case then it would be openshift-sriov-network-operator as per https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/networking/hardware_networks/installing-sriov-operator.html

Reviewer 3: in the previous step you create SriovNetwork. This network should have some custom name like "mysriovnetwork". After that it would create NetworkAttachmentDefinition resource in the target namespace. This NetworkAttachmentDefinition resource will have mysriovnetwork name instread of openshift-sriov-network-operator.

----
+
[NOTE]
====
There might be a delay before the SR-IOV Network Operator creates the CR.
====

.Verifying that the additional SR-IOV network attachment is successful

To verify that the tuning CNI is correctly configured and the additional SR-IOV network attachment is attached, do the following:

> . Create a pod such as `examplepod.yaml` similar to the following:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a `Pod` CR. Save the following YAML as the file `examplepod.yaml`:
```

Author: done

+
[source,terminal]

> ----

Reviewer 3: Same here, Pod yaml format looks different from other resources. It's like grayed out. Not sure if it should be like that.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: tunepod

>   namespace: default

Reviewer 3: It would be better to use the same namespace in resource examples

Author: Think I have these matched up.

  annotations:

>     k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: |-

Reviewer 2: openshift-sriov-network-operator/onevalidflag

I think we need the namespace here.

Author: Hi @mmirecki I was going to go with YAML extract @kononovn supplied.

      [
        { 
          "name": "onevalidflag",  <1>

>           "mac": ["0a:56:0a:83:04:0c"], <2>

Reviewer 3: mac is not list. Please remove []. It should be just **"mac": "0a:56:0a:83:04:0c"**

>           "ips": ["10.100.100.200/24"] <3>

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should include the `namespace` attribute just for the sake of documenting there is one?

>           "ips": ["10.100.100.200/24"]'<3>

Reviewer 3: Please remove last quotation mark  "ips": ["10.100.100.200/24"] **'** <3>

       } 
      ]
spec:
  containers:
  - name: podexample
    image: centos
    command: ["/bin/bash", "-c", "sleep INF"]

>     securityContext:

Reviewer 2: Having the securityContext might hint that some additional privileges are needed.
Do we need this?

Author: Hi @mmirecki I used file that @kononovn referred to. I think might be needed to deal with security updates in 4.11.

Author: If I run without securityContext I get the error 
```
oc apply -f example3.yaml
Warning: would violate PodSecurity "restricted:v1.24": allowPrivilegeEscalation != false (container "podexample" must set securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation=false), unrestricted capabilities (container "podexample" must set securityContext.capabilities.drop=["ALL"]), runAsNonRoot != true (pod or container "podexample" must set securityContext.runAsNonRoot=true), seccompProfile (pod or container "podexample" must set securityContext.seccompProfile.type to "RuntimeDefault" or "Localhost")
pod/tunepod created
```

Author: When I use example pod supplied by @kononovn it does not dump out that error

      runAsUser: 2000 
      runAsGroup: 3000 
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false 
      capabilities: 
        drop: ["ALL"]
  securityContext:
    runAsNonRoot: true 
    seccompProfile: 
      type: RuntimeDefault
----
<1> The name of the SR-IOV network attachment definition CR.
<2> Optional: The MAC address for the SR-IOV device that is allocated from the resource type defined in the SR-IOV network attachment definition CR. To use this feature, you also must specify `{ "mac": true }` in the SriovNetwork object.

> <3> Optional: IP addresses for the SR-IOV device that is allocated from the resource type defined in the SR-IOV network attachment definition CR. Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported. To use this feature, you also must specify `{ "ips": true }` in the SriovNetwork object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Optional: IP addresses for the SR-IOV device that are allocated from the resource type defined in the SR-IOV network attachment definition CR. Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported. To use this feature, you also must specify `{ "ips": true }` in the `SriovNetwork` object.
```

Author: done

> . Apply the YAML: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `Pod` CR: 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f examplepod.yaml
----

. Verify that the pod is created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pod -n sysctl-tuning-test
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
tunepod   1/1     Running   0          47s
----

. Log in to the pod by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc rsh tunepod

Reviewer 3: Please replace by `oc rsh -n sysctl-tuning-test tunepod`

Author: done
